Title: Shell-Supervised Gaussian Splatting for Urban Real-to-Sim Reconstruction

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.30014v1

Published Time: Tue, 30 Jun 2026 02:22:31 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# Shell-Supervised Gaussian Splatting for Urban Real-to-Sim Reconstruction 

# Yuan Yang 1 Peijun Lu 2 Fangzhou Lu 1 Sai Fan 1 Siqi Yan 1 Chenyuan Zhang 1

# Haobo Liang 1,† Yicheng Wang 1,†   

> 1Hong Kong Center for Construction Robotics 2Tsinghua University
> yuanyang@ust.hk hbliang@ust.hk †yichengwang@ust.hk †

# Abstract 

Real-to-sim reconstruction for embodied AI requires ge-ometry that is useful for collision reasoning, navigation, and agent-environment interaction, not only photorealis-tic novel-view synthesis. However, close-range urban fa-cades are difficult for video-to-3D reconstruction: glass, reflections, repeated windows, and weak texture can pro-duce visually plausible renderings with unstable surface geometry. We introduce shell-supervised Gaussian Splat-ting, a reconstruction-stage framework that uses an exter-nal facade structural shell as lightweight geometric su-pervision for video-driven Gaussian reconstruction. The method aligns an exterior shell to the video reconstruc-tion frame, renders per-view depth, camera-space nor-mal, and valid-mask maps, and applies these cues through mask-gated losses during Gaussian optimization. This de-sign preserves RGB-driven appearance while regularizing only visible shell-supported facade regions. Experiments on anonymized close-range urban facade scenes show im-proved facade orientation and visible-surface point-cloud consistency over photo-only, monocular-cue, and surface-oriented Gaussian baselines, while maintaining compara-ble held-out rendering quality. 

# 1. Introduction 

Real-to-sim reconstruction is becoming an important di-rection for embodied AI: instead of manually designing synthetic environments, recent systems convert real-world videos into interactive simulation assets for agent train-ing [36]. In this setting, a reconstruction is not only a novel-view synthesis model, but also the geometric substrate for collision reasoning, physical interaction, and navigation-relevant observations. Recent neural rendering methods, especially 3D Gaus-sian Splatting (3DGS), provide real-time photorealistic re-construction from posed images [10]. However, photoreal-istic rendering does not guarantee reliable geometry. This gap is especially problematic for close-range urban facades, where glass, reflections, repeated windows, weak texture, and limited viewpoints can yield plausible RGB renderings but inconsistent surface orientation. Reflective and trans-parent surfaces are also known to be difficult for 3D re-construction systems [32]. For urban real-to-sim pipelines, these geometric errors can affect the physical and naviga-tional usefulness of the reconstructed scene. Existing geometry-aware reconstruction methods ad-dress this problem from different angles. Depth and nor-mal priors can regularize Gaussian Splatting [27], surface-oriented Gaussian representations such as 2DGS improve geometric consistency by changing the primitive represen-tation [8], and building-prior methods show that external building geometry can guide Gaussian reconstruction [43]. Nevertheless, close-range facades remain challenging be-cause monocular cues are still inferred from ambiguous RGB evidence, while detailed building priors can be too sensitive or difficult to release. This work introduces a facade shell-guided Gaussian re-construction framework for the video-to-3D stage of ur-ban real-to-sim pipelines. The central observation is that a complete semantic building model is unnecessary: the method only requires a lightweight exterior structural shell that captures visible facade geometry. Such exterior geom-etry can be obtained from existing exterior models, laser scanning, street-level mapping, or photogrammetric recon-struction [19]. After aligning the shell to the video recon-struction frame, we render per-view shell depth, camera-space normals, and valid masks for mask-gated geomet-ric supervision during 3DGS optimization. The shell acts as supervision rather than initialization or replacement of the video-derived reconstruction, allowing the method to preserve video-driven appearance while regularizing only shell-supported facade regions. Experiments are conducted on two anonymized close-range urban facade sequences in a Vid2Sim-style recon-struction setting. The primary scene provides the full com-parison against photo-only 3DGS, monocular-cue supervi-sion, and 2DGS baselines, while the secondary scene serves 

> arXiv:2606.30014v1 [cs.CV] 29 Jun 2026

as a cross-scene validation case. Across these evaluations, shell-guided supervision improves facade-orientation con-sistency and visible-surface point-cloud accuracy on shell-supported regions while preserving comparable held-out rendering quality. These results suggest that lightweight ex-terior facade shells provide useful geometric supervision for video-driven urban facade reconstruction without requiring a complete semantic building model. Our contributions are summarized as follows: • We formulate shell-supported facade geometry consis-tency as a reconstruction-stage objective for urban real-to-sim pipelines, where photorealistic rendering alone is insufficient. • We introduce an exterior facade shell as lightweight geo-metric supervision for Gaussian reconstruction, avoiding the need for a complete semantic building model. • We render the aligned shell into per-view depth, camera-space normal, and valid-mask supervision, and show improved visible facade geometry over photo-only, monocular-cue, and surface-oriented Gaussian baselines. 

# 2. Related Work 

Neural rendering and Gaussian scene reconstruction. 

Neural rendering enables photorealistic view synthesis from posed images, from NeRF-style volumetric radiance fields [15] to scalable and efficient variants for unbounded or large-scale scenes [1, 16, 20, 25, 26]. Street-view neu-ral rendering further studies urban captures with sparse view overlap, large-scale backgrounds, and dynamic driv-ing scenes [7, 35]. 3D Gaussian Splatting provides a real-time explicit representation for photorealistic render-ing [10]. Subsequent Gaussian methods improve robustness and structure through anti-aliasing, anchor-based organiza-tion, density control, surface-aligned representations, opac-ity fields, surfels, planar primitives, or street-scene formu-lations [5, 8, 9, 14, 37, 40–42, 45]. Our work keeps a video-driven 3DGS backbone, but adds exterior facade-shell su-pervision for close-range urban facade geometry. 

Geometric priors for neural reconstruction. Photo-metric supervision alone often leaves geometry under-constrained. Prior work improves reconstruction through learned video geometry [24], implicit surface formula-tions [13, 30, 38], sparse depth or sparse-view regulariza-tion [3, 17], monocular depth/normal cues [39], and struc-tural or normal priors for weakly textured and planar re-gions [6, 29]. DN-Splatter shows that depth and normal priors can regularize Gaussian Splatting geometry and im-prove meshing [27]. In contrast to image-derived or sensor-derived priors, our supervision is rendered from an aligned exterior facade shell. 

Real-to-sim and embodied simulation. Embodied AI re-search relies on simulation platforms for scalable train-ing and evaluation, including Matterport3D, Gibson, Habi-tat, AI2-THOR, iGibson, and CARLA [2, 4, 12, 21, 23, 33]. Recent real-to-sim systems construct interactive environments directly from real-world captures, such as Video2Game and Vid2Sim [34, 36]. Our work targets the reconstruction stage of such pipelines: rather than evaluat-ing downstream reinforcement learning, we focus on asset-level geometry needed before collision-aware simulation can be reliable. 

Building priors, facade shells, and reflective surfaces. 

External structural information can improve reconstruction and localization in built environments. Prior work on scan-based building modeling and mapping shows that exte-rior geometry can be obtained from laser scanning, mo-bile mapping, aerial mapping, or photogrammetry [19]. Architectural-prior methods further use structural build-ing geometry for LiDAR-camera pose refinement [28], and GS4Buildings guides Gaussian reconstruction with se-mantic 3D building models [43]. Unlike GS4Buildings, which uses semantic building models for building-level Gaussian reconstruction, our method keeps a video-driven SfM/Vid2Sim initialization and uses a lightweight exterior shell only as mask-gated per-view supervision for close-range handheld facade capture. 

# 3. Method 

Given a handheld monocular video of an urban facade, our goal is to optimize a video-driven 3D Gaussian scene while improving the geometry of shell-supported facade regions. The input consists of RGB frames I1, . . . , I N , camera in-trinsics and poses (Ki, R i, t i) for each frame, estimated by an SfM / Vid2Sim-style video-to-3D pipeline [22, 36], and an external facade structural shell S. The shell is an exterior-only geometric prior and is converted into per-view supervision rather than used as a complete semantic build-ing model. Our method has three stages, as shown in Fig. 1. First, we prepare and validate a fixed shell-to-camera alignment that places the facade shell in the same coordinate frame as the video reconstruction. Second, we render the aligned shell into each training view to obtain shell depth, shell normal, and valid-mask supervision. Third, we optimize a 3D Gaussian representation [10] with RGB photometric supervision and mask-gated shell losses. The shell losses are applied only on valid shell-supported pixels, avoiding constraints in sky, dynamic, occluded, or out-of-shell re-gions. The alignment is treated as a validated geometric prior rather than an absolute metric reference, and is kept fixed during optimization. Figure 1. Overview of the proposed shell-supervised Gaussian reconstruction framework. A monocular facade video is first reconstructed with an SfM / Vid2Sim-style Gaussian initialization. An aligned exterior facade shell is then rendered into per-view depth, camera-space normal, and valid-mask supervision. These shell-rendered cues are applied only on valid shell-supported pixels during Gaussian optimization, preserving video-driven appearance while improving visible facade geometry. 

3.1. Vid2Sim-style Gaussian Reconstruction 

We use a 3DGS-style reconstruction backbone within the Vid2Sim-style video-to-3D setting [36]. Neural render-ing methods such as NeRF demonstrate that posed images can be optimized into photorealistic view-synthesis mod-els [15]. We follow the explicit 3D Gaussian Splatting rep-resentation [10], where a scene is represented as a set of anisotropic Gaussian primitives 

G = ( μj , Σj , α j , c j )Mj=1 . (1) Here μj and Σj denote the Gaussian center and covari-ance, αj is opacity, and cj represents view-dependent color parameters. For each camera view i, differentiable splatting renders an RGB image ˆIi from G.The photo-only reconstruction optimizes the Gaussian scene using RGB supervision, 

R = ρr ( ˆIi, I i). (2) Here ρr combines the ℓ1 and D-SSIM photometric terms of standard 3DGS training [10]. This objective preserves video-driven appearance, but it does not directly constrain facade surface geometry. In close-range urban captures, glass, reflections, repeated windows, weak texture, and sparse SfM support can therefore lead to visually plausible renderings with unstable surface orientation. This is consis-tent with recent analyses of Gaussian reconstruction, where redundant primitives can fit training views while the under-lying geometry remains weak, and density control can de-pend strongly on the quality of SfM initialization [14, 45]. The MONO baseline follows the geometry-consistent component of the Vid2Sim-style pipeline by using image-derived monocular depth and normal cues during Gaussian optimization. These cues are useful but are still inferred from ambiguous RGB evidence. Our method keeps the same video-driven Gaussian backbone, but adds the exte-rior facade shell as a stronger source of per-view geometric supervision. 

3.2. Facade Structural Shell Preparation and Align-ment 

The facade shell S provides exterior structural geome-try of the visible building facade. Such exterior geom-etry can be prepared from scan-based building modeling, mobile mapping, photogrammetric reconstruction, or other architectural-prior pipelines [19, 28, 43]. Unlike a com-plete semantic building model, the shell excludes sensitive or unnecessary information such as interiors, MEP systems, equipment identifiers, and project metadata. The method uses only facade-level geometry and the rendered per-view supervision. 

3.3. Shell-to-Camera Geometry Rendering 

After alignment, the facade shell is rendered into the train-ing camera views. For each pixel p in view i, we cast a camera ray through Ki, Ri, and ti, and query its first valid intersection with the aligned shell Sc. We imple-ment this ray-casting step using Open3D RaycastingScene, which supports ray intersections with triangle meshes and returns first-hit distances and primitive normals [18]. This produces three per-view maps: 

(ZSi , N Si , M Si ) = RS (Sc, K i, R i, t i). (3) Here ZSi is the forward shell depth, N Si is the camera-space shell normal, and M Si ∈ { 0, 1} is a valid mask indicating pixels where the ray intersects the shell. 

3.4. Shell-supervised Gaussian Optimization 

During training, the Gaussian scene renders RGB, inverse depth, and normal predictions for each view: 

( ˆIi, ˆDi, ˆNi) = RG(G, K i, R i, t i). (4) The shell-guided training objective used in the main com-parison is 

L = R + α(t)D + β(t)N + γ(t)C. (5) Here R is the RGB photometric loss, D is the shell depth loss, N is the shell normal loss, and C is an aux-iliary geometry-consistency regularizer inherited from the Vid2Sim-style Gaussian optimization pipeline [36]. The scalar weights α(t), β(t), and γ(t) vary with the training it-eration. The RGB term preserves video-driven appearance, while the shell-rendered depth and normal terms provide the main external geometry supervision. This follows a broader line of work showing that geometric cues such as depth and normals can regularize neural reconstruction [3, 39] and Gaussian Splatting geometry [27]. In contrast to image-derived or sensor-derived priors, our supervision is rendered from an aligned exterior facade shell. The depth term operates on inverse depth. Let BSi =1/Z Si denote the shell inverse depth. We apply a local patch-normalized cross-correlation objective 

D = 1

|ΩSi |

X

> p∈ΩSi



1 − NCC( ˆDi, B Si ; P (p)) 



. (6) Here ΩSi = p | M Si (p) = 1 is the set of valid shell-supported pixels and P (p) denotes the local patch centered at p on which the NCC is evaluated. This inverse-depth NCC term acts as a local structural cue rather than an abso-lute metric L1 depth objective. The normal term encourages the rendered Gaussian nor-mals to follow the shell-rendered facade orientation: 

N = 1

|ΩSi |

X

> p∈ΩSi



1 −

D ˆNi(p), N Si (p)

E 

. (7) Both predicted and shell-rendered normals are unit-normalized and represented in the camera coordinate frame. This term is especially important for facade scenes, where repeated windows and reflective glass can produce visually plausible but geometrically inconsistent surfaces. The auxiliary term C follows the geometry-consistency regularization used in the Vid2Sim-style reconstruction backbone [36]. In our setting, it is evaluated with the same valid-mask gating as the shell losses so that geo-metric regularization is concentrated on regions supported by the rendered facade shell. Our ablation separates the depth, normal, and auxiliary regularization terms; the re-sults show that the dominant improvement comes from the shell-rendered normal and depth supervision rather than from the auxiliary regularizer alone. 

3.5. Shell-supervised Optimization Procedure 

Algorithm 1 summarizes the shell-supervised optimization procedure. The shell is used as supervision rather than ini-tialization, preserving the video-derived appearance model while regularizing only visible shell-supported facade re-gions. 

Algorithm 1 Shell-supervised optimization                                                                     

> Input :RGB frames Iiand cameras Cifor i= 1 , . . . , N ,facade shell S
> Output :optimized Gaussian scene G
> Initialize :G←video-to-3D Gaussian initialization
> Sc←TS→cS// fixed alignment
> for view i= 1 , . . . , N do
> (ZSi, N Si, M Si)←RS(Sc, C i);ΩSi←valid pixels where
> MSi(p) = 1 ;
> end for t= 1 , . . . , T do
> sample view i;( ˆIi,ˆDi,ˆNi)←RG(G, C i);
> Q←α(t)D+β(t)N+γ(t)Con valid pixels ΩSi;
> L←R+Q; update Gusing ∇GLwith densification and pruning while t≤tdens ;
> end

Scene RGB Tr./Te. Res. Shell Role Primary 201 175/26 1898 ×1066 120 Main+abl. Secondary 52 45/7 1861 ×1044 52 Val.   

> Table 1. Scene statistics. “Shell” denotes views with rendered facade-shell depth, normal, and valid-mask supervision.

# 4. Experiments 

4.1. Scenes and Data 

We evaluate our method on two anonymized close-range ur-ban facade sequences, denoted as the primary scene and the secondary scene. Each sequence contains handheld monocular RGB frames, Structure-from-Motion camera pa-rameters, an anonymized exterior facade shell point cloud, a fixed shell-to-camera alignment, and per-view shell-rendered depth, normal, and valid-mask supervision. The camera parameters are estimated using an SfM / Vid2Sim-style video-to-3D reconstruction pipeline [22, 36]. Table 1 summarizes the scene statistics. The primary scene is used for the full quantitative com-parison and ablation study, while the secondary scene is used as a validation case for the same shell-supervision de-sign on another facade geometry. For both scenes, the fa-cade shell is used only to produce per-view geometric su-pervision, including shell depth, camera-space shell nor-mal, and a valid mask indicating pixels where the shell is visible from the current camera. Figure 2 shows a represen-tative supervision example, and additional secondary-scene examples are provided in the supplementary material. All scene names, site identifiers, and project-specific metadata are anonymized in the released material. 

4.2. Baselines 

We compare the proposed shell-guided reconstruction against both appearance-driven and geometry-aware Gaus-sian reconstruction baselines. All methods use the same RGB frames, camera parameters, train/test split, and ini-Figure 2. Representative shell supervision on the primary scene: (a) RGB frame, (b) shell depth, (c) camera-space shell normal, and (d) valid mask. White pixels in the valid mask indicate shell-supported regions used for geometric supervision. 

tialization for each scene unless otherwise specified. 

Photo-only 3DGS. This baseline optimizes a standard 3D Gaussian representation using RGB photometric super-vision only [10]. It represents the appearance-driven re-construction setting and tests whether photometric training alone can recover reliable facade geometry in close-range urban scenes. 

MONO. This baseline follows the monocular-cue geo-metric supervision used in our Vid2Sim-style reconstruc-tion pipeline [36]. It uses image-derived depth and nor-mal cues during Gaussian optimization, but does not use the external facade shell. We treat MONO as a controlled baseline for the geometry-consistent reconstruction compo-nent of a real-to-sim pipeline, rather than as a complete re-production of the full Vid2Sim system, whose scope also includes hybrid simulation construction, scene augmenta-tion, and downstream embodied navigation. This compari-son tests whether a facade shell can provide stronger struc-tural supervision than monocular cues alone in reflective and repetitive facade regions. 

2DGS. We include 2D Gaussian Splatting as a surface-oriented Gaussian baseline [8]. Unlike 3D Gaussian primi-tives, 2DGS represents scenes using oriented planar Gaus-sian disks and is designed to improve geometric consis-tency. This baseline tests whether a geometry-aware Gaus-sian representation alone can resolve the facade geometry ambiguity without external shell supervision. 

Ours. Our shell-guided model uses the same video-driven Gaussian reconstruction framework, but adds mask-gated shell-rendered supervision. Specifically, it com-bines RGB photometric supervision with inverse-depth NCC, camera-space normal supervision, and an auxiliary geometry-consistency regularizer on valid shell-supported pixels. This comparison isolates the effect of using an aligned exterior facade shell as an external geometric prior, while keeping the video-driven Gaussian backbone fixed. 

Ablation variants. On the primary scene, we evaluate three variants that remove individual shell-guided terms: depth-only, normal-only, and depth+normal without the auxiliary geometry-consistency regularizer. These variants isolate surface-distance guidance, facade-orientation guid-ance, and the effect of the auxiliary regularizer, following common evaluations of depth and normal priors in Gaus-sian reconstruction methods [27]. 

4.3. Implementation Details 

All methods use the same RGB frames, SfM camera pa-rameters, train/test split, image resolution, and sparse ini-tialization within each scene unless otherwise specified. The photo-only, MONO, and shell-guided variants share the same 3DGS-style initialization produced by the SfM / Vid2Sim-style reconstruction pipeline [22, 36]. The 2DGS baseline is trained with the same camera split and image resolution, and is included as a surface-oriented Gaussian reconstruction baseline [8]. For the shell-guided models, the facade shell is first aligned to the reconstruction coordinate frame and then kept fixed throughout training. We pre-render the aligned shell into each training view to obtain depth, camera-space nor-mal, and valid-mask maps. These maps are not denoised or manually edited. During optimization, shell losses are evaluated only on valid shell-supported pixels. This mask-gated design prevents the shell prior from constraining sky, dynamic objects, occluded regions, or regions outside the available facade shell. All methods are trained for 30k iterations following the 3DGS-style optimization schedule [10]. For the shell-supervised model, densification follows the 3DGS-style training schedule and is stopped at 15k iterations. The weight of the mask-gated inverse-depth NCC term is ex-ponentially decayed from 0.5 to 0.1, while the normal and auxiliary geometry-consistency weights are fixed at 0.1. This follows the broader practice of using depth and normal cues to regularize Gaussian reconstruction [27] and the geometry-supervised reconstruction setting of Vid2Sim [36]. The depth term used in our experiments is the inverse-depth NCC term in Sec. 3.4, not a metric L1 depth loss. For the primary-scene ablations, we keep the same training protocol and change only the shell-guided loss terms. The depth-only model keeps the shell depth term, the normal-only model keeps the shell normal term, and the depth+normal model removes the auxiliary geometry-consistency regularizer while keeping both shell-rendered cues. These variants follow common evaluations of depth and normal priors in Gaussian reconstruction [27]. Code will be released upon acceptance. 4.4. Evaluation Metrics 

We evaluate each method using both appearance and ge-ometry metrics. Appearance metrics are computed on the held-out test views and include PSNR, SSIM [31], and LPIPS [44]. These metrics measure whether shell supervi-sion preserves the video-driven rendering quality. Since our goal is not to maximize photometric quality alone, we report appearance metrics together with geometric measurements rather than using them as the sole criterion. Because our target setting is urban real-to-sim recon-struction, we evaluate geometry in addition to appearance. We do not evaluate downstream reinforcement learning or interactive simulation in this paper; instead, we measure reconstruction properties that are needed before collision-aware simulation can be reliable, including shell-supported facade orientation and visible-surface consistency. This evaluation focus is consistent with embodied-simulation and real-to-sim settings, where reconstructed environments must support not only visual observations but also geome-try for physical interaction, collision reasoning, and agent-environment contact [4, 21, 23, 36]. For image-space geometry evaluation, we compare ren-dered geometry against the aligned facade-shell supervision on shell-supported pixels. We report scale-aligned depth error and unsigned normal angular error. For depth, ren-dered and shell depths are first converted to the same metric coordinate scale, and the rendered depth is then aligned to the shell depth by a per-view median scale factor computed only on valid shell-supported pixels. We report the result-ing D-MAE as a diagnostic of shell-depth structural consis-tency, rather than as evidence of absolute metric-depth re-covery. This choice matches our inverse-depth NCC train-ing term, which encourages local depth-structure agreement but does not directly impose a metric L1 depth objective. For normals, we report the mean unsigned angular devi-ation between rendered normals and shell-rendered camera-space normals on valid shell-supported pixels. The angle is computed from the absolute dot product between the two unit normals. This metric evaluates local facade orientation rather than the normal-facing direction, which is the geo-metric property most relevant for our shell-supported recon-struction diagnostic. We further evaluate visible-surface point clouds us-ing symmetric Chamfer distance and thresholded F-score. For each evaluated view, we back-project valid rendered depth pixels into 3D and compare the reconstructed visible-surface points with the corresponding shell-supported ref-erence points. Chamfer distance measures the average bidi-rectional nearest-neighbor distance between the two point sets. F-score combines precision and recall under distance thresholds, following common 3D reconstruction evalua-tion practice [11]. We report F-scores at multiple thresh-olds to show whether a method improves both strict local                                        

> Method PSNR ↑SSIM ↑LPIPS ↓D-MAE ↓Normal ↓<10 ◦↑<20 ◦↑
> Photo-only [10] 23.67 0.835 0.262 0.236 55.21 2.30 7.71 MONO [36] 23.48 0.832 0.269 0.220 53.57 7.22 14.65 2DGS [8] 23.16 0.824 0.303 0.201 57.46 3.95 10.76 Ours 23.06 0.824 0.282 0.273 17.42 47.36 73.12
> Table 2. Main quantitative results on the primary scene. Appear-ance metrics are computed on held-out test views; geometry met-rics are computed on shell-supported test views. D-MAE is per-view median-scale-aligned depth MAE in meters and is used as a depth diagnostic. Normal is unsigned mean angular error in de-grees.

accuracy and coarse facade-level alignment. All geometry metrics are computed only on valid shell-supported regions. This avoids penalizing methods for sky, dynamic objects, vegetation, occluded areas, or facade re-gions outside the available exterior shell. On the primary scene, we use the same metrics for the main comparison and the ablation study. On the secondary scene, we use the same evaluation protocol to test whether the shell-guided supervision transfers to another facade geometry. 

# 5. Results and Ablation 

5.1. Main Quantitative Results 

Table 2 reports the main results on the primary scene. The photo-only 3DGS baseline achieves the best photometric scores, which is expected because it optimizes only the RGB reconstruction objective [10]. The proposed shell-guided model slightly reduces PSNR compared with photo-only 3DGS, from 23.67 dB to 23.06 dB, and gives simi-lar SSIM while maintaining a lower LPIPS than 2DGS [8]. This indicates that the shell losses do not aim to maximize photometric quality alone, but preserve the video-driven ap-pearance to a comparable level. The strongest benefit appears in facade orientation. Photo-only 3DGS, MONO [36], and 2DGS all produce large unsigned normal errors above 53 degrees on shell-supported test views, showing that photometric reconstruc-tion, monocular cues, and a surface-oriented Gaussian rep-resentation alone are insufficient to recover consistent fa-cade orientation in this scene. In contrast, our shell-guided model reduces the mean normal error to 17.42 degrees and increases the percentage of pixels below 20 degrees from 7.71% for photo-only 3DGS and 14.65% for MONO to 73.12%. D-MAE is a scale-aligned depth diagnostic, not a mea-sure of absolute metric-depth accuracy. Our depth term uses local inverse-depth NCC, which encourages structural depth agreement but does not impose a metric L1 objec-tive. Consistent with this, 2DGS obtains the lowest D-MAE while its normal error remains high. Our method has a larger D-MAE but substantially better facade orientation. This apparent discrepancy arises because D-MAE and Figure 3. Qualitative geometry comparison on a held-out test view of the primary scene. The first column provides the RGB context and shell-rendered reference, and the remaining columns show method outputs. The top row compares camera-space normal maps, while the bottom row shows unsigned angular normal error against the shell-rendered reference, with gray indicating pixels outside the valid shell mask. Photo-only, MONO, and 2DGS produce fragmented facade orientations, while shell-guided supervision yields more coherent shell-supported facade geometry. 

the visible-surface point-cloud metrics evaluate different properties: D-MAE applies per-view median depth rescal-ing and measures scale-normalized image-space depth agreement, whereas Table 3 uses raw rendered depth for 3D back-projection without per-view rescaling. Therefore, D-MAE diagnoses local depth-structure agreement, while the point-cloud evaluation reflects raw visible-surface con-sistency. 

5.2. Visible-surface Point-cloud Evaluation 

The image-space geometry metrics in Table 2 show that shell guidance substantially improves facade normal orien-tation. We further evaluate whether this improvement is re-flected in the reconstructed visible 3D surface. For each shell-supported held-out test view, we back-project valid rendered depth pixels into 3D and compare the resulting visible-surface point cloud with the corresponding shell-supported reference points. We report symmetric Chamfer distance and thresholded F-scores following common 3D reconstruction evaluation practice [11]. Unlike D-MAE, this point-cloud evaluation uses raw rendered depth for back-projection and does not apply per-view depth rescal-ing. Table 3 shows that the proposed shell-guided model improves visible-surface geometry over both appearance-driven and geometry-aware baselines. Compared with photo-only 3DGS [10], our method reduces Chamfer dis-tance from 0.069 m to 0.052 m and improves F 5 from 0.546 to 0.710. The MONO baseline [36] produces similar point-cloud accuracy to photo-only reconstruction, indicating that image-derived monocular cues alone do not reliably correct the facade surface in this scene. The 2DGS baseline [8] modestly improves Chamfer dis-tance over photo-only 3DGS, from 0.069 m to 0.066 m, but remains substantially worse than the shell-guided model                                 

> Method Acc. ↓Comp. ↓CD ↓F5↑F10 ↑F20 ↑
> Photo-only [10] 0.091 0.048 0.069 0.546 0.779 0.921 MONO [36] 0.090 0.052 0.071 0.547 0.767 0.916 2DGS [8] 0.077 0.055 0.066 0.563 0.788 0.938
> Ours 0.069 0.036 0.052 0.710 0.865 0.937 Table 3. Visible-surface point-cloud evaluation on the primary scene. All metrics are computed on shell-supported held-out test views using raw rendered depth without per-view depth rescaling for point-cloud back-projection. Distances are reported in meters. F5, F 10 , and F 20 denote F-scores at 5 cm, 10 cm, and 20 cm thresh-olds.

at stricter thresholds. In particular, Ours improves F 5

from 0.563 to 0.710 and F 10 from 0.788 to 0.865 rela-tive to 2DGS, while both methods are comparable at the loose 20 cm threshold. This suggests that changing the Gaussian primitive representation improves coarse visible-surface consistency, but external facade-shell supervision is more effective for recovering accurate shell-supported fa-cade geometry. This evaluation remains restricted to visible shell-supported regions. It should therefore be interpreted as vis-ible facade-shell consistency, not as evidence that the com-plete scene or an extracted mesh is geometrically perfect. 

5.3. Ablation of Shell Supervision 

Table 4 ablates the shell-guided loss terms on the primary scene, following common evaluations of depth and normal priors in Gaussian reconstruction [27]. The depth-only vari-ant substantially improves the scale-aligned depth diagnos-tic, but does not improve facade orientation. In contrast, shell-rendered normal supervision is the dominant cue for orientation consistency, reducing mean normal error from Variant D-MAE ↓ Normal ↓ < 20 ◦ ↑               

> Photo-only [10] 0.236 55.21 7.71 Depth only 0.113 55.42 6.74 Normal only 0.183 17.74 72.33 Depth+normal 0.231 17.09 73.80
> Full objective 0.273 17.42 73.12 Table 4. Ablation of shell-guided supervision terms on the primary scene. D-MAE is the median-scale-aligned depth diagnostic. Nor-mal denotes unsigned mean angular error in degrees. The depth term improves the depth diagnostic, while shell-rendered normal supervision provides the dominant facade-orientation gain.

55.21 degrees for photo-only 3DGS [10] to 17.74 degrees. Combining depth and normal terms gives the best image-space orientation metrics, indicating that shell depth pro-vides complementary surface-distance guidance. The full objective obtains comparable orientation perfor-mance while retaining the auxiliary geometry-consistency regularizer used by the underlying Vid2Sim-style recon-struction backbone [36]. These results show that the main improvement comes from shell-rendered depth and normal supervision rather than from the auxiliary regularizer alone. We therefore use the full objective as the default model in the main comparison. The complete supplementary abla-tion additionally reports the < 10 ◦ normal-accuracy metric. 

5.4. Qualitative Analysis and Cross-scene Valida-tion 

Figure 3 compares rendered facade geometry on a held-out test view of the primary scene. The photo-only and MONO reconstructions produce fragmented normal fields on the glass curtain wall and repeated-window regions: sur-face orientation varies almost pixel-to-pixel even where the underlying facade is planar. 2DGS, despite its surface-oriented representation, also does not recover consistent facade orientation in this close-range setting. The shell-guided model also follows the shell-rendered reference while retaining fine structures such as columns and slab edges. We further evaluate the same supervision design on the secondary scene, which contains fewer frames and nois-ier shell-supported regions than the primary scene; we therefore use it as a cross-scene validation case rather than a large-scale generalization benchmark. With the same training protocol and no manual editing of the shell-rendered supervision maps, the secondary scene follows the same overall trend: shell-guided supervision improves facade-orientation consistency on valid shell-supported pix-els while preserving comparable rendering quality. Addi-tional quantitative results and supervision examples for the secondary scene are provided in the supplementary mate-rial. 

# 6. Discussion and Limitations 

The proposed method improves the reconstruction stage of a Vid2Sim-style real-to-sim pipeline, rather than providing a complete embodied simulation system. Accordingly, our results should be interpreted as asset-level geometry im-provements, not as downstream simulation or navigation validation [4, 21, 23, 36]. A key design choice is that the method uses only an exterior structural shell, rather than a complete semantic building model. Such shells can come from existing ex-terior models, terrestrial or mobile laser scanning, aerial or street-level mapping, or photogrammetric reconstruc-tion [19]. The shell is converted into per-view depth, nor-mal, and valid-mask supervision, preserving video-driven appearance quality while improving visible facade geome-try where photometric and monocular cues are ambiguous. The ablation shows that shell-rendered normal supervision is the dominant cue for facade orientation, while shell depth provides complementary structural guidance; the auxiliary regularizer is not the main source of the improvement. The method has several limitations. It assumes that an exterior shell can be prepared and aligned to the video re-construction frame, and we do not treat this alignment as an absolute metric reference. Supervision applies only to shell-supported facade regions and does not explain sky, vegetation, dynamic objects, interiors, or regions outside the shell. The spatial-region holdout in the supplementary material shows that extrapolation to disjoint unsupervised facade bands remains limited. Glass also remains difficult: our current formulation does not model transparency, reflec-tion, refraction, or material appearance, and should not be interpreted as solving glass facade reconstruction [32]. Fi-nally, improved visible geometry is only a prerequisite for downstream interactive simulation; we do not claim a com-plete clean mesh, a finished interactive simulation environ-ment, or downstream navigation or reinforcement-learning results. 

# 7. Conclusion 

We presented a facade shell-guided Gaussian reconstruction framework for the video-to-3D stage of urban real-to-sim pipelines. The method renders an aligned exterior shell into per-view depth, camera-space normal, and valid-mask su-pervision for mask-gated Gaussian optimization. Experi-ments on close-range urban facade scenes show improved visible facade orientation and visible-surface point-cloud consistency in raw-depth visible-surface point-cloud eval-uation, while preserving comparable RGB rendering qual-ity. These results support exterior facade shells as practical structural priors for improving shell-supported geometry in video-driven urban facade reconstruction. References 

[1] Jonathan T. Barron, Ben Mildenhall, Dor Verbin, Pratul P. Srinivasan, and Peter Hedman. Mip-NeRF 360: Unbounded anti-aliased neural radiance fields. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 5470–5479, 2022. [2] Angel Chang, Angela Dai, Thomas Funkhouser, Maciej Hal-ber, Matthias Nießner, Manolis Savva, Shuran Song, Andy Zeng, and Yinda Zhang. Matterport3D: Learning from RGB-D data in indoor environments. In Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on 3D Vision (3DV) , pages 667–676, 2017. [3] Kangle Deng, Andrew Liu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Deva Ra-manan. Depth-supervised NeRF: Fewer views and faster training for free. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) ,pages 12882–12891, 2022. [4] Alexey Dosovitskiy, German Ros, Felipe Codevilla, Anto-nio M. L´ opez, and Vladlen Koltun. CARLA: An open urban driving simulator. In Proceedings of the 1st Annual Confer-ence on Robot Learning (CoRL) , pages 1–16. PMLR, 2017. [5] Antoine Gu´ edon and Vincent Lepetit. SuGaR: Surface-aligned gaussian splatting for efficient 3D mesh reconstruc-tion and high-quality mesh rendering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 5354–5363, 2024. [6] Haoyu Guo, Sida Peng, Haotong Lin, Qianqian Wang, Guofeng Zhang, Hujun Bao, and Xiaowei Zhou. Neural 3D scene reconstruction with the manhattan-world assumption. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 5511–5520, 2022. [7] Jianfei Guo, Nianchen Deng, Xinyang Li, Yeqi Bai, Bo-tian Shi, Chiyu Wang, Chenjing Ding, Dongliang Wang, and Yikang Li. Streetsurf: Extending multi-view im-plicit surface reconstruction to street views. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04988 , 2023. [8] Binbin Huang, Zehao Yu, Anpei Chen, Andreas Geiger, and Shenghua Gao. 2D gaussian splatting for geometrically ac-curate radiance fields. In ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Papers , pages 1–11, 2024. [9] Kaiwen Jiang, Venkataram Sivaram, Cheng Peng, and Ravi Ramamoorthi. Geometry field splatting with gaussian sur-fels. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 5752– 5762, 2025. [10] Bernhard Kerbl, Georgios Kopanas, Thomas Leimk¨ uhler, and George Drettakis. 3D gaussian splatting for real-time radiance field rendering. ACM Transactions on Graphics , 42 (4):1–14, 2023. [11] Arno Knapitsch, Jaesik Park, Qian-Yi Zhou, and Vladlen Koltun. Tanks and temples: Benchmarking large-scale scene reconstruction. ACM Transactions on Graphics , 36(4):1–13, 2017. [12] Eric Kolve, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Winson Han, Eli VanderBilt, Luca Weihs, Alvaro Herrasti, Matt Deitke, Kiana Ehsani, Daniel Gordon, Yuke Zhu, Aniruddha Kembhavi, Abhinav Gupta, and Ali Farhadi. AI2-THOR: An interactive 3D en-vironment for visual AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05474 ,2017. [13] Zhaoshuo Li, Thomas M¨ uller, Alex Evans, Russell H. Tay-lor, Mathias Unberath, Ming-Yu Liu, and Chen-Hsuan Lin. Neuralangelo: High-fidelity neural surface reconstruction. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 8456–8465, 2023. [14] Tao Lu, Mulin Yu, Linning Xu, Yuanbo Xiangli, Limin Wang, Dahua Lin, and Bo Dai. Scaffold-GS: Structured 3D gaussians for view-adaptive rendering. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-tern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 20654–20664, 2024. [15] Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Matthew Tancik, Jonathan T. Barron, Ravi Ramamoorthi, and Ren Ng. NeRF: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view syn-thesis. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Com-puter Vision (ECCV) , pages 405–421, 2020. [16] Thomas M¨ uller, Alex Evans, Christoph Schied, and Alexan-der Keller. Instant neural graphics primitives with a multires-olution hash encoding. ACM Transactions on Graphics , 41 (4):1–15, 2022. [17] Michael Niemeyer, Jonathan T. Barron, Ben Mildenhall, Mehdi S. M. Sajjadi, Andreas Geiger, and Noha Radwan. RegNeRF: Regularizing neural radiance fields for view syn-thesis from sparse inputs. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 5480–5490, 2022. [18] Open3D Developers. Open3D raycastingscene docu-mentation. https : / / www . open3d . org / docs / latest / python _ api / open3d . t . geometry . RaycastingScene.html , 2026. Accessed: 2026-06-17. [19] Rabia Rashdi, Joaqu´ ın Mart´ ınez-S´ anchez, Pedro Arias, and Zhouyan Qiu. Scanning technologies to building information modelling: A review. Infrastructures , 7(4):49, 2022. [20] Konstantinos Rematas, Andrew Liu, Pratul P. Srini-vasan, Jonathan T. Barron, Andrea Tagliasacchi, Thomas Funkhouser, and Vittorio Ferrari. Urban radiance fields. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 12932–12942, 2022. [21] Manolis Savva, Abhishek Kadian, Oleksandr Maksymets, Yili Zhao, Erik Wijmans, Bhavana Jain, Julian Straub, Jia Liu, Vladlen Koltun, Jitendra Malik, Devi Parikh, and Dhruv Batra. Habitat: A platform for embodied AI research. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) , pages 9339–9347, 2019. [22] Johannes L. Sch¨ onberger and Jan-Michael Frahm. Structure-from-motion revisited. In Proceedings of the IEEE Confer-ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) ,pages 4104–4113, 2016. [23] Bokui Shen, Fei Xia, Chengshu Li, Roberto Mart´ ın-Mart´ ın, Linxi Fan, Guanzhi Wang, Claudia P´ erez-D’Arpino, Shya-mal Buch, Sanjana Srivastava, Lyne Tchapmi, Micael Tchapmi, Kent Vainio, Josiah Wong, Fei-Fei Li, and Sil-vio Savarese. igibson 1.0: A simulation environment for interactive tasks in large realistic scenes. In Proceedings of the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) , pages 7520–7527, 2021. [24] Jiaming Sun, Yiming Xie, Linghao Chen, Xiaowei Zhou, and Hujun Bao. Neuralrecon: Real-time coherent 3D reconstruc-tion from monocular video. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 15598–15607, 2021. [25] Matthew Tancik, Vincent Casser, Xinchen Yan, Sabeek Pradhan, Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Jonathan T. Barron, and Henrik Kretzschmar. Block-NeRF: Scalable large scene neural view synthesis. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 8248–8258, 2022. [26] Haithem Turki, Deva Ramanan, and Mahadev Satya-narayanan. Mega-NeRF: Scalable construction of large-scale NeRFs for virtual fly-throughs. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 12922–12931, 2022. [27] Matias Turkulainen, Xuqian Ren, Iaroslav Melekhov, Otto Seiskari, Esa Rahtu, and Juho Kannala. DN-splatter: Depth and normal priors for gaussian splatting and meshing. In Pro-ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applica-tions of Computer Vision (WACV) , pages 2421–2431, 2025. [28] Miguel Arturo Vega-Torres, Anna Ribic, Borja Garc´ ıa de Soto, and Andr´ e Borrmann. BIMCaP: BIM-based AI-supported LiDAR-camera pose refinement. In Proceedings of the 31st International Workshop on Intelligent Computing in Engineering (EG-ICE 2024) , pages 423–432, 2024. [29] Jiepeng Wang, Peng Wang, Xiaoxiao Long, Christian Theobalt, Taku Komura, Lingjie Liu, and Wenping Wang. NeuRIS: Neural reconstruction of indoor scenes using nor-mal priors. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) , pages 139–155, 2022. [30] Peng Wang, Lingjie Liu, Yuan Liu, Christian Theobalt, Taku Komura, and Wenping Wang. NeuS: Learning neural im-plicit surfaces by volume rendering for multi-view recon-struction. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , pages 27171–27183, 2021. [31] Zhou Wang, Alan C. Bovik, Hamid R. Sheikh, and Eero P. Simoncelli. Image quality assessment: From error visibility to structural similarity. IEEE Transactions on Image Pro-cessing , 13(4):600–612, 2004. [32] Thomas Whelan, Michael Goesele, Steven J. Lovegrove, Ju-lian Straub, Simon Green, Richard Szeliski, Steven Butter-field, Shobhit Verma, and Richard Newcombe. Reconstruct-ing scenes with mirror and glass surfaces. ACM Transactions on Graphics , 37(4):1–11, 2018. [33] Fei Xia, Amir R. Zamir, Zhi-Yang He, Alexander Sax, Ji-tendra Malik, and Silvio Savarese. Gibson env: Real-world perception for embodied agents. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 9068–9079, 2018. [34] Hongchi Xia, Zhi-Hao Lin, Wei-Chiu Ma, and Shenlong Wang. Video2game: Real-time, interactive, realistic and browser-compatible environment from a single video. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vi-sion and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 4578–4588, 2024. [35] Ziyang Xie, Junge Zhang, Wenye Li, Feihu Zhang, and Li Zhang. S-NeRF: Neural radiance fields for street views. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2023. [36] Ziyang Xie, Zhizheng Liu, Zhenghao Peng, Wayne Wu, and Bolei Zhou. Vid2sim: Realistic and interactive simu-lation from video for urban navigation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 1581–1591, 2025. [37] Yunzhi Yan, Haotong Lin, Chenxu Zhou, Weijie Wang, Haiyang Sun, Kun Zhan, Xianpeng Lang, Xiaowei Zhou, and Sida Peng. Street gaussians: Modeling dynamic urban scenes with gaussian splatting. In Proceedings of the Euro-pean Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) , pages 156– 173, 2024. [38] Lior Yariv, Jiatao Gu, Yoni Kasten, and Yaron Lipman. Vol-ume rendering of neural implicit surfaces. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2021. [39] Zehao Yu, Songyou Peng, Michael Niemeyer, Torsten Sat-tler, and Andreas Geiger. MonoSDF: Exploring monoc-ular geometric cues for neural implicit surface reconstruc-tion. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2022. [40] Zehao Yu, Anpei Chen, Binbin Huang, Torsten Sattler, and Andreas Geiger. Mip-splatting: Alias-free 3D gaussian splat-ting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Com-puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) , pages 19447– 19456, 2024. [41] Zehao Yu, Torsten Sattler, and Andreas Geiger. Gaussian opacity fields: Efficient adaptive surface reconstruction in unbounded scenes. ACM Transactions on Graphics , 43(6): 1–13, 2024. [42] Farhad G. Zanjani, Hong Cai, Hanno Ackermann, Leila Mir-vakhabova, and Fatih Porikli. Planar gaussian splatting. In 

Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Ap-plications of Computer Vision (WACV) , pages 8887–8896, 2025. [43] Qilin Zhang, Olaf Wysocki, and Boris Jutzi. GS4Buildings: Prior-guided gaussian splatting for 3D building reconstruc-tion. ISPRS Annals of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences , X-4/W6-2025:249–256, 2025. [44] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A. Efros, Eli Shecht-man, and Oliver Wang. The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-tion (CVPR) , pages 586–595, 2018. [45] Zheng Zhang, Wenbo Hu, Yixing Lao, Tong He, and Heng-shuang Zhao. Pixel-GS: Density control with pixel-aware gradient for 3D gaussian splatting. In Proceedings of the Eu-ropean Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) , pages 326– 342, 2024. Supplementary Material: Shell-Supervised Gaussian Splatting for Urban Real-to-Sim Reconstruction 

# Yuan Yang 1 Peijun Lu 2 Fangzhou Lu 1 Sai Fan 1 Siqi Yan 1 Chenyuan Zhang 1

# Haobo Liang 1,† Yicheng Wang 1,†   

> 1Hong Kong Center for Construction Robotics 2Tsinghua University
> yuanyang@ust.hk hbliang@ust.hk †yichengwang@ust.hk †

# 1. Evaluation Protocol and Alignment Valida-tion 

This supplementary material provides additional evaluation details and results for the main paper. All scene names, file paths, and site identifiers are omitted to preserve anonymity. We use the same terminology as the main paper and refer to the two evaluated sequences as the primary scene and the secondary scene. All geometry evaluations are computed only on pixels supported by the rendered facade shell valid mask. This protocol evaluates visible facade-shell consistency on held-out views, rather than complete-scene reconstruction qual-ity. Pixels corresponding to sky, dynamic objects, vegeta-tion, occlusions, interiors, or regions outside the available exterior shell are excluded from the geometry metrics. Rendered Gaussian normals and shell-rendered normals are compared in the camera coordinate frame after unit nor-malization. Normal error is reported as unsigned angular error, computed from the absolute dot product between the two unit normals. This evaluates local facade orientation rather than the normal-facing direction, which is the ge-ometric property most relevant for our shell-supported re-construction diagnostic. D-MAE is reported as a per-view median-scale-aligned depth diagnostic on shell-supported pixels, rather than as raw absolute metric-depth accuracy. The exterior facade shell is aligned to the video recon-struction coordinate frame before shell-supervised training and then kept fixed. We validate the alignment by render-ing the aligned shell into representative camera views and checking whether shell-supported regions overlap the vis-ible facade structure. This validation is performed before optimization and is not tuned using final reconstruction re-sults. The shell is therefore used as a validated structural prior for shell-supported regions, rather than as an absolute metric reference for the complete scene.                           

> Table 1. Ablation of shell-guided loss terms on the primary scene. Geometry metrics are computed on shell-supported held-out test views. D-MAE is per-view median-scale-aligned depth MAE in meters and is used as a depth diagnostic. Normal is unsigned mean angular error in degrees; threshold percentages are higher better. Variant D-MAE Normal <10 ◦<20 ◦
> Photo-only 0.236 55.21 2.30 7.71 Depth only 0.113 55.42 1.84 6.74 Normal only 0.183 17.74 47.64 72.33 Depth + normal 0.231 17.09 47.70 73.80
> Full objective 0.273 17.42 47.36 73.12

# 2. Primary-scene Ablation 

Table 1 reports the complete ablation of shell-guided loss terms on the primary scene. Depth-only supervision im-proves the scale-aligned depth diagnostic but does not cor-rect facade orientation. In contrast, shell-rendered normal supervision is the dominant cue for reducing unsigned an-gular normal error. Combining depth and normal supervi-sion gives the best image-space orientation metrics in this ablation, while adding the auxiliary geometry-consistency regularizer gives comparable but not better shell-supported image-space geometry. The main paper adopts the full objective as the default model because it retains the aux-iliary geometry-consistency regularizer of the underlying reconstruction backbone while attaining image-space ori-entation comparable to the depth+normal variant. The shell-rendered depth and normal terms remain the dominant source of the orientation improvement. 

# 3. Spatial-region Holdout Stress Test 

Because our geometry metrics use the exterior facade shell as the visible-structure reference, we additionally conduct a spatial-region holdout stress test on the primary scene. We split shell-supported facade pixels into alternating vertical 1Table 2. Spatial-region holdout stress test on the primary scene. Ours-A receives shell-guided supervision only on region A, while all metrics are computed only on the disjoint region B. All methods in this table are evaluated on region B only; “all regions” denotes the training supervision region, not the evaluation region. D-MAE is a per-view median-scale-aligned depth diagnostic, and Normal is unsigned mean angular error in degrees. Method D-MAE ↓ Normal ↓ < 10 ◦ ↑ < 20 ◦ ↑                

> Photo-only 0.228 55.78 1.93 6.78 MONO 0.209 54.82 6.86 13.59 Ours (all regions) 0.249 15.75 50.83 77.46 Ours-A (A only) 0.170 49.18 5.82 14.86
> Figure 1. Representative shell supervision on the secondary scene. The panels show, from top-left to bottom-right, the RGB frame, shell depth, camera-space shell normal, and valid mask.

bands. The model denoted Ours-A receives shell supervi-sion only on region A, while all metrics in Table 2 are com-puted only on the disjoint region B, which is never used by shell-guided losses. The RGB reconstruction loss is still applied using the standard training views; only the shell-guided depth, normal, and geometry-consistency losses are spatially restricted to region A. The model trained with shell guidance on all regions re-mains strong on region B because it receives shell super-vision there during training. In contrast, Ours-A improves depth error but provides only a limited normal-orientation gain over Photo-only and MONO on the never-supervised region B. This result indicates that shell-guided supervision is strongest on directly supervised shell-supported regions, while spatial extrapolation to disjoint unsupervised facade bands remains limited. Therefore, our evaluation should be interpreted as visible facade-shell consistency under avail-able shell supervision, not as evidence of shell-only com-pletion for unseen facade regions. 

# 4. Secondary-scene Shell Supervision 

Figure 1 shows a representative shell supervision example from the secondary scene. The visualization includes the RGB frame, shell depth, camera-space shell normal, and valid mask. White pixels in the valid mask denote shell-supported regions used for geometric supervision.                    

> Table 3. Secondary-scene geometry validation. Metrics are com-puted on shell-supported held-out test views. D-MAE is per-view median-scale-aligned depth MAE in meters and is used as a depth diagnostic. Normal is unsigned mean angular error in degrees; threshold percentages are higher better. Method D-MAE Normal <10 ◦<20 ◦
> Photo-only 1.637 62.20 1.18 4.10 MONO 1.557 61.77 4.58 15.89 Ours 1.889 23.44 43.47 63.43
> Figure 2. Secondary-scene qualitative geometry comparison on a held-out view. The top row compares camera-space normal maps, and the bottom row shows unsigned angular normal-error maps on shell-supported regions.

# 5. Secondary-scene Quantitative Validation 

Table 3 reports secondary-scene geometry metrics on shell-supported held-out test views. The secondary scene is used as a validation case rather than a large-scale generaliza-tion benchmark. Consistent with the primary scene, the strongest improvement appears in facade orientation: shell-guided supervision reduces unsigned normal error from 62.20 degrees to 23.44 degrees and increases the fraction of pixels below 20 degrees. The D-MAE diagnostic re-mains higher than the baselines, which is consistent with our scale-aligned diagnostic setting and the inverse-depth NCC training objective. 

# 6. Secondary-scene Qualitative Geometry 

Figure 2 provides a qualitative geometry comparison on a held-out secondary-scene view. To avoid street-level iden-tifying content, the figure compares only rendered normal maps and angular-error maps on shell-supported regions. The shell-guided model produces more coherent facade ori-entation and lower unsigned angular-error regions than the photo-only and monocular-cue baselines.